---
title: A New Start
author: Andrew Pagan
description:
  It's been about a week since my last day at Reputation.com, and since then
  I've had some time to reflect on what I liked, what I didn't like, what I want
  to do in the future, and how I'm...
created: Thu, 11 Mar 2021 17:32:32 GMT
---

# A New Start

It's been about a week since my last day at Reputation.com, and since then I've
had some time to reflect on what I liked, what I didn't like, what I want to do
in the future, and how I'm going to improve in the future. It's no surprise that
the pandemic has exposed the cracks in our system, and that was not exclusive to
government policies. It really made me realize at Reputation that I loved the
people a lot more than the mission and projects.

**Do not get me wrong**. I enjoyed Reputation while I was there. It was my first
real developer job with development cycles, more than one other engineer to talk
to, and gave me many opportunities to take leadership on projects. I feel very
fortunate to be able to be a lead frontend engineer on a major project for the
platform, and it really forced me to learn at a fast pace.

## If it was so great, why did you leave?

_"Well if you loved it so much then why leave?"_. That really is the million
dollar question here. I see so many people write posts like "Wow, **X** was such
an amazing company. I love it so much and it pains me so much to leave..." blah
blah blah. I think if you loved it so much, why would you leave? There has to be
some driving force that makes you start looking for the next job, otherwise...
Did you really love it? You can love the people, but hate the work. You can love
the perks of the office, but hate the culture. When it comes down to it, you can
love many things about a company you work for, but there has to be something you
don't like / hate that makes you say "I'm getting the hell out of here".

For me, there was a few things:

- Not feeling heard
- Low total compensation
- I no longer aligned with the company mission

**This post is not to bash Reputation**. I repeat, it is not to bash. This is
just me talking about what led me to leave the company.

## Not feelings heard

When a company says they are transparent, there are different levels of
transparency. Just like in Photoshop, you can make an element 100% transparent,
or 50% to get a faint view of the element behind it. There are many reasons why
a company might do this, such as to save the moral of the engineers to hide the
dirty laundry that doesn't need to be shown to every single employee at a
company. I fully understand that. However, if you're going to boast you're being
transparent, don't beat around the bush. I would love to go into details, but I
do not want to break any NDAs, and honestly it does not concern me anymore since
I am no longer there.

## Low total compensation

You don't have to try to convince any engineers at Reputation that they are
underpaid. Not when comparing to FAANG companies, but other companies of the
same size in the Valley. It took 2 years to get my first salary adjustment, and
by then it was essentially an inflation bonus plus some peanuts to eat at my
desk (WFH of course). I made it very clear 5 months into me working at
Reputation I had an ideal number to hit at my 1 year mark, and if the company
could not help me hit that number, they needed to let me know. They hit me with
the classic "don't worry", and after dozens of conversations and 2 years of
waiting, even with a bonus, more stocks, and a base salary bump, we didn't get
close to that number.

It makes sense though. Why would a company willingly give you more money than it
"has" to. A company does not have to give you a raise, whether you're a super
start developer or not. It is not a legal obligation to give you any type of
raise, and getting one at all is a blessing. However, if you want that sweet
FAANG salary or a 40% bump in TC, then you better look elsewhere. Just know the
second you put in your two week notice, the company will all of a sudden have
the funds to give you a raise and make you stay. It's as if the money fell from
the skys.

## I no longer aligned with the company mission

When I first found out about Reputation,
[this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0eMeOE0sXrc&ab_channel=Cleverism) video
blew my little mind. The founder and CEO Michael Fertik really pulled me in with
this review economy that had been right in my face this entire time, and I
didn't realized how much I relied on Google Maps reviews and Yelp Reviews to
really make a informed decision on who to give my business too. I was intrigued,
and wanted to work there to add to this mission.

However, over the last two years my tastes really have changed. I don't really
feel motivated in helping a multi-billion dollar company make themselves look
good on the internet anymore. If Reputation moved towards a "Freemium" model for
businesses with one or two locations, that I could 1000000% get behind. However,
there's no money there and I'm sure the investors would not be down for that.
This is by no means a fault of the company. It really is a "follow where the
money is" play, and I get it.

## I'll miss the people, but not the company

I have made many great friends at Reputation over my time. I loved being in the
office and bringing my fresh baked cookies in for everyone to eat. It always
made me happy to see people enjoying my food, and really is one of my fondest
memories of the place. Plus, meeting great friends that I know I will talk to
for the rest of my life is the cherry on top of the life ice cream sundae.

Reputation was good to me, and I'll forever be grateful to them. Now it's time
to move onto the next, big adventure.
